README.md, before:

# ha-terneo-mqtt

Home Assistant integration for Terneo thermostats using MQTT protocol for local control without cloud dependency.

## Features

This integration provides the following entities for each configured Terneo device:

- **Climate Entity**: Control temperature, heating mode (HEAT/AUTO/OFF), and power state. Automatically displays HEAT mode when device is actively heating.
- **Sensor Entities**:
  - Floor temperature
  - Protection temperature
  - Load (current consumption indicator)
  - Mode (Off/Idle/Heat based on device state)
- **Binary Sensor Entity**:
  - None
- **Number Entity**:
  - Brightness (0-9 for display brightness)
- **Select Entity**:
  - Mode (schedule/manual)

## Installation

1. Copy the `custom_components/terneo_mqtt` folder to your Home Assistant `custom_components` directory.
2. Restart Home Assistant.
3. Add the integration via the UI: Settings > Devices & Services > Add Integration > TerneoMQ.

## Configuration

During setup:
1. Provide comma-separated list of MQTT Client IDs (e.g., `terneo_ax_1С0056,terneo_ax_057019`)
2. MQTT broker details (host, port, credentials)
3. Device prefix (default: "terneo")
### Options

After setup, you can configure additional options:
- **Topic prefix**: MQTT topic prefix used by devices
- **Supports air temperature**: Whether devices publish air temperature sensor data. If disabled, floor temperature will be used as current temperature.
## MQTT Topics

The integration subscribes to and publishes on the following topics:

- `{prefix}/{client_id}/airTemp` - Current air temperature (optional, falls back to floor temperature if not available)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/setTemp` - Target temperature (commands)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/floorTemp` - Floor temperature
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/protTemp` - Protection temperature
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/load` - Load state (0=idle, 1=heating)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/powerOff` - Power state (0=on, 1=off)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/mode` - Operation mode (0=auto/schedule, 1=manual)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/bright` - Display brightness

## HVAC Mode Logic

The climate entity intelligently manages HVAC modes:
- **HEAT**: Manual heating mode or when device is actively heating (load=1)
- **AUTO**: Automatic/schedule mode when not actively heating
- **OFF**: Device is powered off

When the device starts heating (load changes to 1), the mode automatically switches to HEAT to accurately reflect the current state, regardless of the configured mode.

## Running Tests

To run the test suite:

```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source venv/bin/activate

# Run tests
python -m pytest
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add power and energy sensor support

README.md, after:

# ha-terneo-mqtt

Home Assistant integration for Terneo thermostats using MQTT protocol for local control without cloud dependency.

## Features

This integration provides the following entities for each configured Terneo device:

- **Climate Entity**: Control temperature, heating mode (HEAT/AUTO/OFF), and power state. Automatically displays HEAT mode when device is actively heating.
- **Sensor Entities**:
  - Floor temperature
  - Protection temperature
  - Load (current consumption indicator)
  - Mode (Off/Idle/Heat based on device state)
  - Power (current power consumption in watts, requires rated power setting)
  - Energy (accumulated energy consumption in kWh, requires rated power setting)
- **Binary Sensor Entity**:
  - None
- **Number Entity**:
  - Brightness (0-9 for display brightness)
- **Select Entity**:
  - Mode (schedule/manual)

## Installation

1. Copy the `custom_components/terneo_mqtt` folder to your Home Assistant `custom_components` directory.
2. Restart Home Assistant.
3. Add the integration via the UI: Settings > Devices & Services > Add Integration > TerneoMQ.

## Configuration

During setup:
1. Provide comma-separated list of MQTT Client IDs (e.g., `terneo_ax_1С0056,terneo_ax_057019`)
2. MQTT broker details (host, port, credentials)
3. Device prefix (default: "terneo")
### Options

After setup, you can configure additional options:
- **Topic prefix**: MQTT topic prefix used by devices
- **Supports air temperature**: Whether devices publish air temperature sensor data. If disabled, floor temperature will be used as current temperature.
- **Rated power (W)**: Rated power of the heating element in watts. When set above 0, enables power and energy sensors for HA Energy dashboard integration. Set to 0 to disable energy monitoring.
## MQTT Topics

The integration subscribes to and publishes on the following topics:

- `{prefix}/{client_id}/airTemp` - Current air temperature (optional, falls back to floor temperature if not available)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/setTemp` - Target temperature (commands)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/floorTemp` - Floor temperature
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/protTemp` - Protection temperature
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/load` - Load state (0=idle, 1=heating)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/powerOff` - Power state (0=on, 1=off)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/mode` - Operation mode (0=auto/schedule, 1=manual)
- `{prefix}/{client_id}/bright` - Display brightness

## HVAC Mode Logic

The climate entity intelligently manages HVAC modes:
- **HEAT**: Manual heating mode or when device is actively heating (load=1)
- **AUTO**: Automatic/schedule mode when not actively heating
- **OFF**: Device is powered off

When the device starts heating (load changes to 1), the mode automatically switches to HEAT to accurately reflect the current state, regardless of the configured mode.

## Running Tests

To run the test suite:

```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source venv/bin/activate

# Run tests
python -m pytest
```

## License

MIT
